gh-95389: socketmodule: expose popular `ETHERTYPE_*` constants (#95390)
python/cpython: Doc/library/socket.rst

  ``(ifname, proto[, pkttype[, hatype[, addr]]])`` where:

  - *ifname* - String specifying the device name.

>   - *proto* - The Ethernet protocol number. May be one of
>     :ref:`ETHERTYPE_* constants <socket-ethernet-types>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *proto* - The Ethernet protocol number.
    May be :data:`ETH_P_ALL` to capture all protocols,
    one of the :ref:`ETHERTYPE_* constants <socket-ethernet-types>`
```

* Add reference to ``ETH_P_ALL``
* Fix grammar

    or any other Ethernet protocol number.

>     In both cases, values must be in network-byte-order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Value must be in network-byte-order.
```

* Shorter and clearer
* More than two cases now
* At least per the description, this only has a single value, not multiple

   .. availability:: Linux >= 2.2.

.. data:: ETH_P_8021AD
          ETH_P_8021Q
          ETH_P_ALL
          ETH_P_ARP
          ETH_P_IP
          ETH_P_IPV6

   Many constants of these forms, documented in the Linux documentation, are

>    also defined in the socket module.

Reviewer 2: Please replace the copied paragraph with a more informative paragraph. The documentation should explain the purpose of the flags. One sentence and a reference to a man page does the trick.

>    .. versionadded:: 3.12

Reviewer 3: Should there be an `availability` directive as well?

Author: `ETH_P_IP` and `ETH_P_ARP` at least are available from before [Linux 1.0](https://elixir.bootlin.com/linux/1.0/source/include/linux/if_ether.h#L35)

Reviewer 2: Please add `.. availability:: Linux` to document that these are Linux-only constants. Or are there constants available on other Unix variants, too?

   .. availability:: Linux >= 2.2.

.. data:: ETH_P_ALL

>    ``ETH_P_ALL`` can be used in :class:`~socket.socket`
>    constructor as *proto* for the :const:`AF_PACKET` family in order to
>    capture every packet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :data:`!ETH_P_ALL` can be used in the :class:`~socket.socket`
   constructor as *proto* for the :const:`AF_PACKET` family in order to
   capture every packet, regardless of protocol.
```

* Use consistent syntax and semantics for ``ETH_P_ALL`` (without a link)
* Fix grammar
* Clarify the "every" dimension over which it operates (protocol, not host/dest address, port, interface, etc)

>    For more information you can consult the Linux documentation
>    :manpage:`packet(7)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For more information, see the :manpage:`packet(7)` manpage.
```

* Shorter, clearer and more specific
* Add missing comma

   .. versionadded:: 3.12

.. _socket-ethernet-types:

.. data:: ETHERTYPE_ARP
          ETHERTYPE_IP
          ETHERTYPE_IPV6
          ETHERTYPE_VLAN

>    IEEE 802.3 protocol numbers.

Reviewer: Would be nice to be a little more specific here, and include a reference (e.g. a manpage or online documentation) where they are documented further.

Reviewer: Also, is there a reason this isn't included right before or after ``ETH_P_ALL``, given their relation?

Author: `ETHERTYPE_*` are just the Ethernet type codes for various packet types - it can be used for packet socket creation but also for other things such as manually crafting a network packet.
`ETH_P_ALL` is Linux specific for packet socket creation to capture all frame, it has no meaning other than that.

`ETH_P_ALL` is documented right after `AF_PACKET`, because they go together.
`ETHERTYPE_*` are unrelated to that so I included them in a different place.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. availability:: Unix

```

Appears to be missing here?

Author: This is available on Linux, FreeBSD and macOS

Reviewer: Does that not count as `Unix`, then, for practical purposes? Either way, it should be documented as such.

>    IEEE 802.3 protocol numbers [1]_.

Reviewer: Instead of making the reader clicking through to a footnote that just contains a bare link they would then need to click, why not just make this itself a proper link?

```suggestion
   `IEEE 802.3 protocol number
   <https://www.iana.org/assignments/ieee-802-numbers/ieee-802-numbers.txt>`_.
   constants.
```

Furthermore, assuming I understand this correctly (if I don't, just use the previous suggestion), wouldn't it be useful to add a cross-reference on their use with the module?

```suggestion
   `IEEE 802.3 protocol number
   <https://www.iana.org/assignments/ieee-802-numbers/ieee-802-numbers.txt>`_.
   constants.
   Can be passed to *proto* in the :class:`~socket.socket` constructor.
```

> 

Reviewer: Assuming "Linux | FreeBSD | macOS" doesn't just count as just "Unix" these days, we still need to document this:

```suggestion

.. availability:: Linux, FreeBSD, macOS.

```

   details of socket semantics.  For Unix, refer to the manual pages; for Windows,
   see the WinSock (or Winsock 2) specification.  For IPv6-ready APIs, readers may
   want to refer to :rfc:`3493` titled Basic Socket Interface Extensions for IPv6.

> 
> 
> .. rubric:: Footnotes
> 
> .. [1] See
>    https://www.iana.org/assignments/ieee-802-numbers/ieee-802-numbers.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Replaced with a normal link above
